what is angular?
 -- Angular is Javascript Framework and a developer platform to build SPA(single page Applications) or PWA(Progressive Web Applications) applications

is Angular same as Angular JS?
No, Angular built on the Angular Js with TypeScript, It follows similar architecure but more type safe and secured. also called as Angular + or Angular2

what is the current version of Angular?
we are in Angular 18 but in this course we discuss mostly 16,17. angualar 9 ,13,15 are most used in market.

what is better react or angular or vue?
react is just a library and easy to learn but difficult to manage since it need so many 3rd party libraries
Angular follows an architecure and it gives control over your whole applications
vue is powerful but complex compared to angular or react.

How to install Angular?
step 1: make sure you have node js or install it . "node -v"
step 2: open cmd and type " npm install @angular/cli "
step 3: check the version of angular by typing "ng --version"
step 4: type " ng new app-name --standalone=false "
select "css" +select no for server side rendering
Scaffolding: angular uses command line interface for all the operations like creating a new app or creating a component etc.., This technique is called scaffolding 

folder structure:
when we installed / initiated application so many folders and files will be installed. let's explore all

tsconfig.json --> used to create rules to tsc for whole project

tsconfig-app.json: used to create rules to tsc for specific to application

tsconfig.spec.json --> used for testing before tsc converts

angular.json --> angular meta data / ruleset about the project

package.json --> meta data( scripts, depedencies,name ) etc..,

package-lock.json --> used for metadata of package.json in detail

.gitignore -- list of files which git ignores when pushing to repository

readme.md --> instructions for project

node_modules : installed packages will be in node node_modules

public: folder to keep all public resources

src-- this is where our code saved

every component( a logical division of UI to reuse) must have ts file(component file) and html file(template file)


app.component.ts -- used for logic of component
app.component.html -- used for html template
app.component.css -- used for styling
app.component.spec.ts -- used for testing

All component will be inside app-module.ts

module files bootstrap(converting static files to dynamic) the components

To run application "ng serve or ng serve -o"













